[SPEAKER_01]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm Tom Turbyville.
[SPEAKER_01]: December the 19th, 1941, Ed Eyre was among the first to volunteer for service following the attack on Pearl Harbor.
[SPEAKER_01]: It took a while, a little maneuvering to get where he wanted to be as a Marine.
[SPEAKER_01]: He wanted to fight for his country in the Pacific and eventually he found himself in the middle of it.
[SPEAKER_01]: a member of the 5th Marine Division, 28th Regimental Weapons Company, charging the sands on D-Day at Iwo Jima, February the 19th, 1945.
[SPEAKER_01]: He saw that U.S.
[SPEAKER_01]: flag flying atop Mount Suribachi, the flag etched in American pride by the famous photograph of the Marines who mounted it there.
[SPEAKER_01]: He fought day and night at Iwo Jima for 10 days until shrapnel from a mortar round eventually ended his combat service.
[SPEAKER_01]: Ed Eyre, winner of the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart,
[SPEAKER_01]: lives in rural Brassens County, and what an honor it is to be visiting with you.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had a chance to visit the other day.
[SPEAKER_01]: You really wanted to get into where the action was, and that's why you joined up just a few days after Pearl Harbor, but you had a little trouble getting to where the action was.
[SPEAKER_01]: You had to sort of jump through some hoops as it were to talk about that.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay, in December of 41, the Marine Corps had only two divisions, the first division, second division.
[SPEAKER_00]: And after I finished boot camp, I went to a nearby camp there at Camp Elliott, north of San Diego, to form the third division, which made some sense.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we trained there until July, and at that point,
[SPEAKER_00]: decided that they needed a 4th Division, so they took half of us, sent us to the East Coast, and I got the chance now to do the same thing in the 4th Division, which was acting as a rifleman, BAR man, motorman, whatever the duty was I might have had at that time.
[SPEAKER_00]: And at that point, my friend and I decided that we wanted to get into action the best we
[SPEAKER_00]: The way we thought we could was to go and volunteer for the parachute regiment, which we did.
[SPEAKER_00]: We went to our training in North Carolina, got our wings, and was sent right to New Caledonia.
[SPEAKER_00]: For more training.
[SPEAKER_01]: For more training.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it was about this time that it was really frustrating because I think you said the third and the fourth sort of went by you.
[SPEAKER_01]: They were over at the Pacific and you were still training, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, they got into action before we did.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we finally left New Caledonia, went up to, in the Solomons, to Vela Lavella, which is a small island there.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then from that point, we were used as just infantry on Bougainville.
[SPEAKER_00]: We never did make a combat jump.
[SPEAKER_00]: at all because of the terrain in the South Pacific.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we went on to Bougainville.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk more about your service there in Bougainville because this was really your first tour of the Pacific and this was the first time that you actually saw combat action, although it was on the ground.
[SPEAKER_01]: This was the Northern Solomon Islands part of the Pacific Campaign.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about what your job was there.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, as we landed, we were about four days behind the initial landing, the 1st Marine Parachute Regiment, and we received the assignment to go up through the lines and to secure a hill called 1,000, being 1,000 feet above sea level.
[SPEAKER_00]: And our job was to take that because it was the commanding ground
[SPEAKER_00]: could oversee the entire Torquina River Basin, which is the place on Bougainville that they wanted to put a fighter strip and a bomber strip.
[SPEAKER_00]: So our job was to get up there on the hill and hold it.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we saw some action up there with the Japanese, or the enemy, I'll call them, trying to take it back.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we were there on the hill about seven days.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then we're relieved, taken back and sent back to Guadalcanal
[SPEAKER_01]: This was around 1943, I believe you said that it was, and eventually,
[SPEAKER_01]: the Marines disbanded all of these troops and you went back home for a while, I guess, to wait for your next assignment.
[SPEAKER_00]: Correct.
[SPEAKER_00]: The Marine Corps at that time disbanded the parachute regiment, the raiders, and several other special units that we had.
[SPEAKER_00]: We were all sent back to the United States and given furlough.
[SPEAKER_00]: Went back to Camp Pendleton and got to organize the 5th Marine Division.
[SPEAKER_01]: You said one time that if you ever had a reunion, you'd be pretty busy because you remember just about all of them.
[SPEAKER_00]: I can go to all three of them.
[SPEAKER_01]: But the 5th Division, this is where you pretty much earned your stripes, as it were, was in the 5th Division.
[SPEAKER_01]: Training Camp Pendleton, is that right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you were in the Regimental Weapons Company.
[SPEAKER_01]: Explain a little bit more about what the purpose and what the job was of that particular company of the 5th Division.
[SPEAKER_00]: The regimental company is a support for the other companies as the infantry companies as they would make an advance to have an objective and if they needed some heavier firepower than they had they would call on regimental weapons.
[SPEAKER_00]: Our weapons were a 37 millimeter anti-tank gun and half tracks.
[SPEAKER_00]: The half tracks mounted a 75 millimeter cannon.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that's the purpose of the Regimental Weapons Company is to be a support group as needed, move to different units as they needed to support.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were initially a rifleman though, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, every Marine is a rifleman.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's the first.
[SPEAKER_00]: You go through boot camp and you come out of there a rifleman, trained to be a rifleman.
[SPEAKER_00]: So even if you go to Cook's and Baker School or get into intelligence or supply, you're still basically a rifleman.
[SPEAKER_00]: You can take that rifle and you know what to do with it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: But you eventually moved to 60 Mortars.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: But your first, I want to go back to the rifle.
[SPEAKER_01]: You said your first rifle was pretty much a relic, wasn't it?
[SPEAKER_01]: well it's what we had it was a 1903 springfield the 30-06 a bolt action nice weapon did a good job it predated the m1 though yes absolutely yeah that was uh the 28th marine uh uh regimental uh weapons company that's what you were a member of now let's uh your next assignment you moved back to the pacific and you made your way eventually to iwo jima talk about
[SPEAKER_01]: sort of the trip there and getting there and the preparation, your mind preparation and physical preparation to go to battle at Iwo Jima.
[SPEAKER_00]: The 5th Marine Division was sent to Hawaii, Camp Tarawa,
[SPEAKER_00]: on the northern end of the Big Island to train.
[SPEAKER_00]: And of course, all the infantry people had their training and regimental weapons.
[SPEAKER_00]: We did our training separately.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then we would advance to the problems, as they call them, as a company or battalion would go out and set up a situation where they would call on us and it would be up to us to see how we could support them.
[SPEAKER_01]: Iwo Jima, it's obviously an island that has a lot of fame.
[SPEAKER_01]: There have been Hollywood movies made about it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk a little bit about what the importance was of this island.
[SPEAKER_01]: I know that its geography was one of the main reasons that it was so important to the American effort in the Pacific, just where it was located between Japan and the bomber bases, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, correct.
[SPEAKER_00]: The Iwo is about 750 miles, rough figure, from Japan.
[SPEAKER_00]: And our bombers were leaving the Marianas, Saipan, and it was quite a long trip for them.
[SPEAKER_00]: And they would bomb Japan, and of course they were subject to mechanical problems, they were subject to enemy fighters, anti-aircraft fire, and just running short of fuel.
[SPEAKER_00]: And so we were losing B-29s and their crews trying to get back to their base.
[SPEAKER_00]: Iwo was a perfect spot for that.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was a flat island.
[SPEAKER_00]: Our enemy already had some strips prepared for landing there.
[SPEAKER_00]: So it seemed to be a logical choice for us because that way we could station our fighters to join with the bombers going to Japan and give them
[SPEAKER_00]: air cover, and it was also a place where the bombers could land if they needed to make an unscheduled landing.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right, and there were plenty of those, as we'll mention in a minute.
[SPEAKER_01]: So essentially, it was a sanctuary for bombers that were crippled, that needed refueling, because the bombers simply did not have the range that it took to get from the Marianas to
[SPEAKER_01]: to the Japanese island.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, essentially they did under in a perfect world.
[SPEAKER_00]: But if you got a headwind or something that's gonna change the fuel consumption, then he's gonna run short of fuel.
[SPEAKER_01]: So this is why Iwo Jima was so important.
[SPEAKER_01]: But the Japanese had many, many years to prepare that particular island.
[SPEAKER_01]: for whatever it took to defend it.
[SPEAKER_01]: So it was, they were pretty intent on keeping it also.
[SPEAKER_00]: Absolutely.
[SPEAKER_00]: And yes, they had, in my recollection, about 20 years that they had their forces stationed there.
[SPEAKER_00]: So they had a good chance to dig in, create caves, do all the things necessary to make a good defensive position.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're gonna see a photograph of one of those caves in a little bit.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's talk about D-Day, February the 19th, 1945.
[SPEAKER_01]: What do you remember about that day and how it developed as you all hit the beach?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, it wasn't much to look at as you looked over the front of the LCVP, the landing craft that we were in because it was just a very,
[SPEAKER_00]: flat island, didn't rise up out of the water more than, seemed like about 10 or 12 feet, no trees whatsoever, big mountain.
[SPEAKER_00]: It turned out to be a volcano on the left, and so we just wondered why we had to have this piece of real estate, but it turned out we did, and we did.
[SPEAKER_01]: A lot of the bombing that had happened before you all ever got there had really pretty much destroyed any vegetation there was there.
[SPEAKER_01]: So once you got there, there was really nowhere to hide.
[SPEAKER_01]: Your only recourse was pretty much frontal assault, and there weren't many trees and things like that to hide behind.
[SPEAKER_00]: Not a one, not a one on the south end of the island.
[SPEAKER_00]: Toward the north end, they had more gullies and a little better cover, but certainly not adequate.
[SPEAKER_00]: But there were no trees, hedgerows or anything like that that you could use for cover.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Admiral Chester Nimitz said of those who fought at Iwo Jima, and especially on that day, what is called D-Day at Iwo Jima, among the Americans who served on Iwo, uncommon valor was a common virtue.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I'm sure you felt that way as you fought side by side beside the rest of the Marines and the other soldiers that were there.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was all Marines.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was interesting to watch men frontal assault something with no cover.
[SPEAKER_01]: The statistics that you find in the 36 days that the Battle of Iwo Jima
[SPEAKER_01]: took place some 6,800 servicemen were killed another 22,000 were wounded and of those 6,800 who were killed some nearly 6,000 of them were indeed Marines you were one of those who were wounded 10 to 11 days into the action I believe March 1st 1945 was the day that you were wounded talk about that what happened and how you got wounded
[SPEAKER_00]: We had left after Sarabache was secured to everybody's satisfaction.
[SPEAKER_00]: The 28th Marines turned north and joined the rest of the 5th Marine Division, which was the 26th and the 27th Marines, and we being the 28th, joined them.
[SPEAKER_00]: We were alongside of other divisions, the 3rd Marine Division and the 4th Marine Division.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was the front line, and we were,
[SPEAKER_00]: So we were moving up to fill in there when our convoy got stopped because of shell fire and I saw some folks that I knew in a mortar position
[SPEAKER_00]: a little bit to my right, so I went over and talked to them while we were waiting to move on.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that's why I know it was a mortar shell, because we were in defilade.
[SPEAKER_00]: The only thing that could have gotten to us was another mortar, because this was a mortar crew that I was visiting with.
[SPEAKER_00]: So they dropped two or three 90 millimeter shells in our group.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was interesting that of the probably 15 men that were there, I was the only one that was hit.
[SPEAKER_01]: Is that right?
[SPEAKER_01]: This was about, like I say, March the 1st, 1945 was the day that you were wounded.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want to backtrack to the taking of Mount Suribachi.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's obviously a very famous event in World War II, something that's known in history books, a lot because of the photograph that was taken by Joe Rosenthal of the mounting of the flag.
[SPEAKER_01]: Most people who are pretty good historians probably know that that particular flag in that photograph was not the first flag.
[SPEAKER_01]: There was really a smaller flag that was put up previously that was taken down.
[SPEAKER_01]: and a larger flag was put up.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think, Ed, this might be a good time to go to some photographs, some that you have supplied to me from magazines, from your own collection, some that I got off of the internet.
[SPEAKER_01]: And if we could go ahead and go to our group of photographs of Mr. Iyer.
[SPEAKER_01]: Here we go.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's take a look at the very first one.
[SPEAKER_01]: And there is a young PFC, Ed Iyer.
[SPEAKER_01]: Where was that taken?
[SPEAKER_01]: Do you recall?
[SPEAKER_00]: That was taken in the suburb of Chicago, Maywood, Illinois.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you were...
[SPEAKER_01]: You were a young, raw volunteer right there.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: As I recall, I was still in the third division at that time.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I was home on leave.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was an emergency leave that I was on.
[SPEAKER_01]: What's that picture we're looking at there now?
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, that's North Carolina, Camp Lejeune.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that's just clowning around after hours.
[SPEAKER_01]: All right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, this is Iwo Jima.
[SPEAKER_01]: This is the beach.
[SPEAKER_01]: One thing that we haven't talked about, Ed, is when people think of a beach in Texas, they think of the hard-packed sand that you just walk around on and run around on and even drive on.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's not what this sand was.
[SPEAKER_01]: This was volcanic ash.
[SPEAKER_01]: and it was very, very hard to not only walk, but much less get machinery or tanks through, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Very good.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, this is a photograph of the invasion
[SPEAKER_01]: Where was the 28th in relation to where this camera is shooting from?
[SPEAKER_01]: A little bit closer to Mount Sarabachi?
[SPEAKER_00]: Very much closer to Sarabachi.
[SPEAKER_00]: Green Beach that we landed on was just off of Sarabachi, just a little bit.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: I wanted to show this photograph because this was taken in 1995, similar to the photograph that we just saw.
[SPEAKER_01]: As a matter of fact, it's the same beach, but you can see what it looked like 60 years later from 1945.
[SPEAKER_01]: or actually 50 years later, 1945, that picture was taken in 1995.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you can see it's changed quite a bit.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's a lot more green there than there was in 1945.
[SPEAKER_00]: The green flag that you see there marks Green Beach.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that is Mount Suribachi where that photograph was taken.
[SPEAKER_01]: What are we looking at here?
[SPEAKER_00]: This is a photograph of a 37-millimeter gun crew in action firing into the pillboxes at the base of Sarabachi.
[SPEAKER_01]: So while this is not necessarily your crew, this could have been your crew because this is pretty much a depiction of what your job was.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's definitely one of the guns that was in Regimental Weapons Company.
[SPEAKER_00]: It just was not the one that I was on.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now we're going to go back to 1995 with the next picture and show you a close-up picture of that particular gun so people can get an idea of exactly the assault weapon that you were using.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I can see there what you said.
[SPEAKER_01]: It didn't have that much of a range to where it couldn't shoot very high.
[SPEAKER_00]: Elevation was limited on it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_00]: So that's the 37th.
[SPEAKER_01]: This gives you a little bit idea of why Mount Suribachi was so important to the Japanese.
[SPEAKER_01]: You can see the view that they got from the top of everything.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's the shore.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's pretty much at the top looking back at the shore.
[SPEAKER_01]: So a pretty incredible view there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, let's move on.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about this is the B-29, and this was the very first landing of the B-29 at Iwo Jima.
[SPEAKER_01]: This was quite an event, and you recall this, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_00]: As a matter of fact, that plane landed before the island was secured.
[SPEAKER_00]: There was still fighting going on in the north end when that plane landed.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think that particular plane was landing on its way back to the Marianas.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it pretty much just show a support of the Marines of what they'd done and what they were fighting for and the ability of the B-29s to land on that island.
[SPEAKER_01]: As a matter of fact, if we can stay on that picture for just a second, I want to say that they estimate that in all 2,400
[SPEAKER_01]: 2,400 B-29s landed unscheduled on Iwo Jima, and that represents some 27,000 crewmen who otherwise might have been lost had Iwo Jima not been secured by the Marines.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you can see right there, so that was quite a celebration day.
[SPEAKER_01]: Back to 1995, this is one of the caves that you talked about that the Japanese really hid in to get out of the way of the assault, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Sure, the pre-invasion bombardment, right.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you can see this is what one of the caves were.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think we've got, may have some other photographs coming up here in just a little bit.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want to talk about that a little bit more.
[SPEAKER_01]: your job was to go into the pillboxes as far as to shoot into the pillboxes and to try to rouse them out but we talked about that they had 20 years of ability to build these caves so they were able to sort of go down in these caves while they were being bombed and they'd just pop right up again talk a little bit more about that there was sort of a frustration involved in what you were doing and it wasn't
[SPEAKER_01]: as effective immediately as you wanted it to be, is that right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, true.
[SPEAKER_00]: As the infantry would advance in some of the days, what you could say was taken was measured in yards that you could be sure of that you owned it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Of course, on the initial stages,
[SPEAKER_00]: The infantry companies would charge on through there, attack the pillboxes.
[SPEAKER_00]: Our enemy would either be annihilated or he would hide out.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then once the lead companies got up further doing the same thing,
[SPEAKER_00]: they would come back in.
[SPEAKER_00]: So you were never absolutely sure of where you were until days went by and you routed them out and or they were flamethrower one thing or another after the caves so that they couldn't be used again.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed, indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm wondering if we have some more pictures, we'll go ahead and put them up there because there were some other photographs that we were planning on having, but I don't believe we have those, but they were photographs actually of the raising of the flag at Mount Sarabaji.
[SPEAKER_01]: You didn't actually see the raising of that flag, but you did see the flag while it was up there, is that right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, shortly after the flag, now I don't know if it was the first one or second one, went up all of the ships that were laying off shore started tooting and
[SPEAKER_00]: and making noise, so in looking around, I was within eyesight of the top of the mountain because that's where our gun was and I could see the flag and it was quite a sight.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: For your action on February the 19th, 1945, you won a bronze star.
[SPEAKER_01]: Correct.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's go back to that day a little bit more and sort of what your job was and what you feel that you did, your entire unit did, that you earned the Bronze Star on that day.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, our job certainly was to get the guns in action as fast as we possibly could and help cover their advance on the pillboxes by putting fire into the apertures and keeping the enemy from returning fire as much as we could.
[SPEAKER_00]: We're talking about numbers of pillboxes, we're not talking one, two, we're talking
[SPEAKER_00]: Many.
[SPEAKER_00]: So, as we did that,
[SPEAKER_00]: We helped the infantry considerably by keeping the enemy's head down, so to speak.
[SPEAKER_00]: But our guns were mounted, because of the sand, they were mounted on short little cargo vehicles called a Weasel.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we made a frame, set the gun up on top of it, and they were in the LCVPs with us.
[SPEAKER_00]: They went out first, and their job was to get that gun up as far as they could.
[SPEAKER_00]: I see.
[SPEAKER_00]: As we hit the beach and laid at that first parapet that shows up, I could see, well, there was just a great amount of mortar fire, artillery fire, and so it just seemed not logical to stay on the beach when my job was to get that gun that I could see up there, get it in action.
[SPEAKER_00]: So my friend and I took off and we managed to get the gun in action very quickly and support the infantry.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'd like, if I can, to read part of the citation that was given to you for thus the awarding of the Bronze Star Medal.
[SPEAKER_01]: It says, despite heavy concentration of artillery, mortars, and machine gun fire,
[SPEAKER_01]: which were falling around him, Private First Class Iyer, although fully exposed and unmindful of personal peril, ran back and forth between his ammunition supplies and the gun crew supplying the weapon at a time when its support was critically needed by the assaulting infantry.
[SPEAKER_01]: When other members of the crew were wounded, he redoubled his efforts, serving
[SPEAKER_01]: in the capacity of gunner in addition to maintaining the supply of ammunition.
[SPEAKER_01]: As a result of his aggressive initiative, his gun remained in action despite casualties and provided material support to the infantry in establishing and maintaining the beachhead.
[SPEAKER_01]: He gained his battle experience at Velo-Lavella and Bougainville,
[SPEAKER_01]: Private first class hires outstanding actions and aggressive determination were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.
[SPEAKER_01]: Of course, this was T.E.
[SPEAKER_01]: Bork signed this, Major General, U.S.
[SPEAKER_01]: Marine Corps of the 5th Marine Division.
[SPEAKER_01]: Obviously, it's a medal that you're very proud of.
[SPEAKER_00]: Very proud.
[SPEAKER_01]: Very proud.
[SPEAKER_01]: You did.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you also won the Purple Heart.
[SPEAKER_01]: Of course, that Purple Heart was given because of your wounds.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's right.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were wounded and you didn't really get to go back into action.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think you said that they sent you to Guam to recover.
[SPEAKER_01]: But by that time, the war was winding down.
[SPEAKER_00]: Is that right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Winding down, yes.
[SPEAKER_00]: And so it was winding down.
[SPEAKER_01]: Had you had your druthers, you would have liked to have gone back.
[SPEAKER_00]: I wanted to go back, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: But you weren't able to.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was winding down and you were still recovering.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: You came back to the United States.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And talk about what you did after you got back to the United States and sort of the end of your service.
[SPEAKER_00]: I was transferred to Great Lakes Naval Training Center.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was in a casual company and we just did
[SPEAKER_00]: I had jobs there because again, the war was winding down and the atomic bomb had been dropped and the European theater was quiet.
[SPEAKER_00]: They had surrendered and then finally the Japanese surrendered and there was no more war to fight.
[SPEAKER_01]: There was no more war to fight?
[SPEAKER_01]: And you went on, I believe, among your jobs in your retirement.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were a salesman for a while, is that right?
[SPEAKER_00]: A salesman.
[SPEAKER_00]: I worked also for the Veterans Administration as a contact representative dealing with the veterans and their benefits with the VA.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right, right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Ed, I know that you and your wife, Jeannie, were married for 61 years.
[SPEAKER_01]: You lost her just earlier this year, but obviously she was someone who supported you.
[SPEAKER_01]: You all were married when you had gone off to war, is that right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, no, we got married in 1944.
[SPEAKER_00]: I had been overseas at one time and back, and then we got together again and got married and have been married.
[SPEAKER_01]: And there were a lot of letters that went back and forth.
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, yeah, you bet.
[SPEAKER_01]: Absolutely.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I know that she was a very big supporter of yours and very much a part of your life, 61 years.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's absolutely... She was a very special lady.
[SPEAKER_01]: Very special lady.
[SPEAKER_01]: And now you live here in Bryan and you are here in rural Bryan.
[SPEAKER_01]: And love it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Absolutely.
[SPEAKER_01]: We didn't mention that you started off in Chicago, in the Chicago area.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's actually where you were raised up there.
[SPEAKER_00]: I was born in Chicago and raised in the western suburbs.
[SPEAKER_00]: All of my life.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: Thank you for your service, Ed.
[SPEAKER_01]: I appreciate it very much, and thank you for visiting with us.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: I'd do the service again if I could.
[SPEAKER_01]: We would love for you, too, if you could.
[SPEAKER_01]: In the 36-day Battle of Iwo Jima, nearly 7,000 American boys were killed, another 22,000 wounded.
[SPEAKER_01]: Ed Eyre is the first to tell you that others suffered deeper wounds.
[SPEAKER_01]: Still, we are honored to salute his bravery and service to our country in two separate tours of the Pacific as a proud Marine.
[SPEAKER_01]: Semper Fi, Ed Eyre.
[SPEAKER_01]: Thanks to our underwriter, too, First National Bank.
[SPEAKER_01]: Join us next time.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm Tom Turbyville.
[SPEAKER_01]: This is Veterans of the Valley.
you